# RGI Meeting notes

## May 5th 2020 Kick-off meeting (EGU telecon)

### Participants

Steering committee + Members + Contributors + Visitors

### Notes

Notes on [google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1m0qg_RCbxbNDT31IA-dNX3zESSylqwPg4cqCoMeZmAk/edit?usp=sharing).

## April 14th 2020 (telecon)

### Participants

RGI Steering committee 

### Agenda draft

- RGI on demand alpha-release: 
    - first reviews are coming in
    - 5th of May call
    - revised timeline 
- Organisation of first WG call with all members (All):
    - Organise call for action - here the work for us is to engage and motivate the group:
        - See the agenda draft on google docs
        - RGI-on-demand testing and choice of outlines. Ideally, we want a smaller task force to be created for this (too many people detrimental)
        - RGItools and related tools: call for contribution and ideas
        - Organisation of a forum / issue tracker for community feedback regaring RGI6 and future betas of RGI7: see https://github.com/GLIMS-RGI/rgi_issue_tracker
- EGU slides for Frank's session
- AGU session? RAGMAG + RGI + GTNG from Bruce 
- Any other business?


## March 6th 2020 (telecon)

### Participants

Regine Hock, Fabien Maussion (late), Philipp Rastner, Bruce Raup, Frank Paul

Not present: Michael Zemp

### Agenda 

- Decide on the constitution of the working group
    - discussion about the members/contributors application
    - discussion about unclear cases - final list is now ready to be communicated
    - set up of a list of criteria that have to be clearly communicated to all as to what defines a "member" and a "contributor"
- Status of "RGI on demand" button
    - some issues with overlapping polygons that needed to be solved
    - beta release by April if everything goes well

### Action items 

- Regine: will draft an email to all applicant
- Fabien: will check the list again
- Frank: sends an email for the wide RGI meeting at EGU (or rather at the same time as planned in EGU, but probably telecon)
- Fabien: find a format for sharing info in an open manner.
    - I've opened a github repository for now, other suggestions welcome: https://github.com/GLIMS-RGI/rgidocs 

## January 9th 2020 (Zürich)


### Participants

Regine, Michi, Frank, Philipp, Matthias, Fabien, Bruce (remotely from 4 pm)

### Agenda

- Status of the proposal
    - Proposal is still in final review. Some key points need to be clarified by IACS Bureau, in particular wrt to GLIMS in the title or not. We will wait for IACS suggestion, and if they insist we can suggest the following subtitle: “Towards the automatic derivation of multi-temporal RGI products from the GLIMS database”.
- Finalize the call for contributions:
    - Most discussion was about the conditions for participation. Following the examples of other WGs, we now define “WG members” and “WG contributors”. See draft email below (looking good as is, in my opinion) 
- RGI-TOPO beta release
    - Fabien and Matthias made a demo. See https://rgitools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dems.html . Some small updates are necessary but we will send this out to CRYOLIST soon.
- RGI version 7 timeline
    - We have a lot of work ahead of us! But the meeting was very motivating, and there is a clear path forward.
    - See attached [Gantt chart](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZYFcPyYySrXSOf0mmv6zPWlntn91VUzO-OVgOA0Pb6E/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Most urgent milestones and responsible persons:
        - Call for data (Michi, Frank, Philipp, Paul): email to be sent to CRYOLIST after the “call for participation” from Fabien and Regine (i.e. right after WG approval)
        - “RGI-on-demand” button in beta-testing version (Bruce) (Feb 1st)
- Communication and outreach
    - Abstract for EGU2020
        - Fabien will write and submit a poster abstract to the “Glaciers from space” session
    - Website(s) and communication platforms.
        - We keep and update the current web presence: 
            - glims.org (Bruce has credentials) 
            - iacs.org (Regine has credentials)
            - We opened a new GLIMS-RGI github organisation. See https://github.com/GLIMS-RGI 


## November 6th 2019 (telecon)

### Participants

Michael Zemp, Regine Hock, Fabien Maussion, Philipp Rastner, Bruce Raup, Matthias Dusch

Not present: Frank Paul

### Agenda

1. WG title
    - After some discussion, we agreed on: "IACS Working Group on the Randolph Glacier Inventory and its role in future glacier monitoring."
2. Issues with diversity and group membership. How to move forward?
    - We agreed to keep the steering commitee as it is because it reflects the engagement of all members up to now. We change Michael's affiliation. 
    - We make some changes in the text about future membership and make clear that the "steering" comittee is here to "steer", not make aritrary decisions.
3. Task forces 
    - in the proposal we are now committing ourselves to do a certain work. I kind of made those "task forces" myself, so I would like to hear your views about it, and especially know if you are OK with committing to this.
    - Add a new task force to make it clear that generating the RGI is going to imply human decision (and some level of arbitrary). The steering commitee will have to do that.
4. Next steps
    - Submit ASAP. Start to work already, because "in one way or another", it will be accepted. 
    - Fabien will merge all the comments in the text and "wrap-it-up", send out for final review and submit early next week.
    - Suggested reviewers:
        - Pierre Pitte (Mendoza, Argentina): pierrepitte@mendoza-conicet.gob.ar 
        - Thorsten Seehaus (Erlangen, Germany): thorsten.seehaus@fau.de
        - Jon Ove Hagen (Oslo, Norway): j.o.m.hagen@geo.uio.no
        - Akiko Sakai (Nagoya University): shakai@nagoya-u.jp
        - Guðfinna Aðalgeirsdóttir (Iceland): gua@hi.is
        - Adina Racoviteanu (Aberystwyth, UK): adr18@aber.ac.uk

    - New RGI has to be delivered within 18 months in order to meet Copernicus deadline.
5. Any other business?
    - We agreed on a "in site" meeting in Zürich, Jan 9 afternoon (for Innsbruck to be continued on 10)
6. Status of DEM work. 
    - Advancing well! Thanks Matthias for all the work. Summary here: https://hackmd.io/kZ808zYwTlKZbdamrx1AtA
